returning now to the situation in Gaza
and Israel's bombardment of the
Palestinian territory has intensified in
the past few minutes especially uh the
bombardment of central Gaza let's bring
in Tark abazo who's in canun is that's
in the southern part of the Gaza Strip
what what are you hearing about what's
happening uh in the center of Gaza of
Gaza
tar yes uh the center of Gaza has
witnessed a massive Israeli campaign of
air strikes that targeted different SES
Central the Gaza Strip considered to be
the main vital uh area in the territory
uh this area considered to be very
densely populated even after the
evacuation of thousands of people to the
southern areas of Gaza Strip people
there have uh running glow on uh
different kinds of uh fuel uh medical
supplies and even food and now they are
witnessing massive uh Israeli air
strikes just we uh we clearly see uh the
videos released from the central Gaza
Strip as the lightening up of every
single corner of the Gaza Strip in the
central areas in terms of the Israeli
Relentless attacks as well uh the these
attacks continued and every single hour
day and night uh targeting civilians and
even destroying uh residential houses
and even civil infrastructures now the
main concentration for the Israeli
latest attacks concentrated on
destroying backies attacking United
Nations shelters and they are also
trying to destroy and to wipe out every
single shape of life in the uh Central
areas and Northern areas of the
territory as well in order to force
citizens there to evacuate to the
southern area so they can have a kind of
flexibility in terms of the military
acts in the in the inside the Gaza STP
so the Israeli Relentless attacks also
continued led to the cut off of
communication Network and it's really
affect on the ability of uh medical uh
services and even the ambulan Services
they don't know either where is the
location of the attack and the the
citizens are forced to bring victims by
using uh their own uh their own uh ways
of transportation just before uh the uh
previous uh coverage I just so uh a man
bringing one of the victims by using his
own Carter bulled by a donkey to the uh
to the hospital here Naser Hospital due
to the absence of communication so
ambulances cannot really get an access
to the uh targ
areas TK um very important that you
mention there Communications because
we've heard from the Palestinian
telecom's agency which has said internet
services uh have been cut across Gaza
again is that happening throughout the
territory or is it just in the areas
that are under intense bombardment right
now uh Central
Gaza well we are away from from the
Israeli bombardments from Central Gaza
Strip we are in the southern areas and
meanwhile we lost connections to uh
communication networks and both
companies that are running in Gaza Strip
and even what about the areas that have
been massively bombarded there is no any
shape of communication there we Face
such a great difficulty in ter in terms
of communicating with our relatives our
friends and our beloved ones in the
central areas of the Gaza Strip in order
to check how they are within the Israeli
Relentless attacks that really uh cause
catastrophic consequences and
deterioration in their life aspects
there so they cannot really uh contact
us and we cannot really know uh the
number of casualties the uh the
locations of the attacks and even the
Palestinian Ministry of Health are
facing is facing such a a great
difficulty in terms also of identifying
the places of targeting in order to send
ambulances to deliver and to take uh uh
wounded and victims resulted from the
Israeli attacks as well if you're just
joining us on Al J it's just gone past
17 GMT that's uh 700 p.m. in the Gaza
Strip and in the past half hour or so
there've been intense Israeli air
strikes over the Gaza Strip uh unusually
intense Israeli air strikes uh
especially on the central part of the
Gaza Strip as our correspondent TK Abu
AUM has been telling us uh we are
unclear as to what specific areas in
central Gaza is being are being targeted
right now by uh Israeli forces uh but T
worth perhaps reminding us what what is
uh there right now in terms of our
population because of course the
Israelis had told Palestinians living in
the northern Gaza Strip to head south
why are they targeting these areas
specifically specifically in the center
of the Gaza Strip and what do we know
about the concentration of the
population there right now did a lot of
people heed that call to move South or
not
yes uh people there are facing uh such
uh great danger and very uh
deterioration in their Liv's aspect so
uh they uh they are they are really re
reluctant to evacuate because they are
really desperate and afraid of being
bombarded as what happened to different
civil cars and ambulances vehicles that
had been largely targeted throughout the
evacuation from the Northern areas to
the southern areas of the territory and
meanwhile they don't have any plac
shelter to go uh to reside in you are
talking about the United Nations
shelters have become overflooded with
residents who were displaced from the
houses we are talking about more than
600,000 Palestinians were evacuated from
the houses and also the hospitals and
the its vicinities are very overwhelmed
with displaced people so it seems that
even the relatives houses United Nation
shelters and even hospitals become very
crowded as even the population in the
southern areas has been doubled due to
the evacuation
waves that had been carried out since
the early beginning of this round of
fighting so the people who are remaining
till now in Gaza they don't have any
option they are very limited in terms of
the ability to move uh as Israel is
expanding its military ground operations
and both linking growths uh to between
the North and the South of Gaza Strip
and every one of them is afraid to lose
his life and even if he was forced to
leave his house under severe
circumstances he is forced to walk for
long distance in order to have access to
the southern areas of Gaza it's been 30
days 30 days of Relentless Israeli
bombing of the Gaza Strip and in the
last few minutes it has intensified even
more especially in the central parts of
Gaza and what we've seen TK in these
last past 30 days is that no area in
Gaza is safe hospitals have been
targeted refugee camps we saw three
refugee camps targeted today including
the largest one in Gaza which has been
hit several time by is Israeli
forces that's uh completely true uh a
lot of uh refugee camps have been
targeted hospitals United Nations
shelters uh we are talking about uh that
every day more than 100 of Palestinians
have been killed on a regular regular
daily basis due to the Israeli relance
attacks and we're talking about more
than 2,000 Palestinian are still messing
under the rles that the civil defense
team are not able to evacuate them to
due to the uh lack of equipment and
sophisticated items that can help them
to evacuate those people from under the
rles and some areas in in the Gaza Strip
ambulances cannot really have an access
to so its citizens are forced to bring
the victims uh uh by carrying them on
their Carters bued by donkeys or by
animals and sometimes they might bring
them by using their own body and they
are are holding them at the hands and to
bring them in the hospitals on foot in
order to receive treatment due to the
Israeli Relentless attacks what is
happening on the Gaza STP is beyond
compare and unimaginable guys we are
talking about every every single hour we
have a new bombardment a new uh a new
bad news we receive a new loss for our
friends our colleagues and even our
relatives in different areas of the
territory the Gaza Strip is W is
witnessing catastrophic consequences as
the uh spokesperson of the World Health
Organization and uh the clar that the
Gaza strep is very is witnessing massive
deterioration and must be a cease fire
or an end to the round of fighting
between Palestinian Fighters and the
Israeli occupation forces okay T for the
moment thank you very much let's bring
in another of our correspondents on the
line from Central Gaza now safwat Al
kahut who's in d albalia safwat what has
been happening in central Gaza in the
last hour or so we've seen some heavy
heavy Israeli air strikes over that part
of the Gaza Strip
yes from uh the central area of Gaza
where we are now we we can hear heavy
explosions taking place uh from in the
southwest of Gaza City and extended up
to the central area uh from what we
understood that clashes severe clashes
are taking place between the fighting
Palestinian fighting groups and the
Israeli troops who storm uh the G Gaza
City from the three directions these
explosions and these bombardments
coincided with a complete cut out uh of
internet and fular uh networks all over
the Gaza Strip for the third time in
less than 10 days so now um the people
all over the Gaza STP are unable to
communicate with each other especially
following every every Israeli air strike
as they have been using to uh to do uh
to check their relatives and with their
families who are deployed and displaced
in different places all over G so uh saf
what you say severe clashes between
Israeli troops uh and Palestinian
Fighters these would be uh the Israeli
ground troops uh who've conducted this
ground incursion it's been a week now
since the ground incursion began but
we're seeing at the same time uh a
number of air strikes so it would be a
ground operation supported for the
Israelis at least by uh air
power hello hello yes saat can you hear
me can you hear me yes I can hear you
yes yes now I can yes I was asking you
about the clashes you say severe clashes
between Israeli troops and Palestinian
Fighters presumably this would be uh
part of the ground operation the ground
incursion that Israeli troops began uh a
week ago now into Gaza uh do we know do
you know what specific areas uh this
ground incursion and these clashes are
happening
at look the Israeli tanks and troes
entered the Gaza City and the Gaza Strip
from three three different directions
the first one is from the north of the
Gaza Strip uh they have even crossed B
hanon and B Laha The Villages of the
north of the Gaza Strip now they uh or
in the last three days let's say they
have been stationing at uh the outskirt
of Gaza City uh and at the outskirt of
the shatti refugee camp which is
adjacent to Gaza City and from the uh
the the south east and the south west of
Gaza City from uh four Direction three
directions uh in the last three days the
Israeli troops and tanks have not
achieved any more advanc advancement uh
since since the last time they entered
Gaza they cut the road the main road
called
Salah that links Gaza City with uh with
its North with the rest of the Gaza
Strip and now they there are a few tens
of meters from the other uh Coastal road
which is the other option for the people
to leave Gaza and they open the fire
even for anyone who try to cross from
Gaza uh to the southern area
of the Gaza so still the clashes are
still taking place at the same three uh
points or location that the Israeli
tanks and the Israeli troops have been
stationing for almost three days uh the
Israelis as from what uh we understood
uh they tried several times to uh to
achieve or to push the tanks forward
towards the town but they have been
confronted by severe clashes with the
fighting groups we have been receiving
videos released by the fighting groups
showing uh showing them exchanging the
fire directly face to face with the
tanks uh at the same time uh some of the
tanks have been moving from the Eastern
side of Gaza City towards the western
side which is the the coastal road to
isolate completely the Gaza City from
the southern area or from the central
area of the Gaza Strip until now the
same the same point for almost three
days yeah so clashes you say at three
different locations particularly in
central Gaza and the objective of the
Israeli military is to cut the territory
in half of course isolate the north from
the south you talked about uh Hamas and
the Palestinian Fighters uh pushing back
and and the fact that you say Israelis
haven't been able to make that much of
an advance how are the Palestinian
Fighters able to hold out able to push
back these Israeli forces
the Palestinian fighting groups have
been preparing themselves for the for
the Israeli Invasion from the beginning
and that's why they have dig a network
of tunnels underground and from the the
pictures or the videos that the fighting
group they have been releasing and
sending to Media Outlet uh showing the
fighting groups coming up uh coming up
from tunnels that they built uh to uh in
in specific places that they have been
expecting so they come up from these
tunnels and fire their projectiles or
the exchange the fire directly with the
with the tanks that's why we the these
tanks have or the troops have been re uh
reing in different places and locations
uh still all these places and the areas
that the Israeli uh tanks and troops
have been entering and trying to pushing
to push forward they confront they are
confronted by the fighting fighting
groups who seem to be well prepared for
this movement and uh we expecting these
Israeli movements including tanks uh
troops so the Israeli uh Army the
Israeli figh targets they uh they
adopted a new tactic which is the
scotched land uh every time they they
want to push forward the the tanks
that's why lots of air sites lots of uh
buildings have
Destro to pave the way to the tanks to
push forward but still again the
fighting groups are still able to come
up from the tunnels that they built and
uh carry out direct exchange of fire
with the tanks who are inside the Gaza
step so massive Israeli air strikes
saward as you say and as we've seen on
our screens over Central Gaza uh in the
last hour so this as Israeli ground
troops try to make an advance as you say
but that's been uh held back pushed back
by the Palestinian fighters on the
ground there as all of this has been
happening we heard and and saw earlier
today Israeli forces are telling
residents of Northern Gaza uh to to head
to the South for safety but as we've
seen in the past three weeks there have
been so many incidents of of civilians
being killed as they
fled is there anyone who has attempted
to move South and and how you know you
Central Gaza right now safwat how
populated is Central Gaza today still as
this massive Israeli bombardment happens
on that specific area of the territory
right
now many people they tried uh or they
have been trying to leave the Gaza Gaza
City towards the South despite that the
south is not safe anymore
or or there is lack of all the
humanitarian needs but still people
because of the H bombardment in the Gaza
City and in the North they tried to flee
or scave through the coastal line but
the the Israeli tanks who are close to
this coastal line they open the fire at
many people there and we saw the
pictures of the people of the Buddies
big buddies uh and deployed in the
coastal line we know about even same
number of people who are at Salah street
but none of the ambulances is able to go
and and bring uh the bodies or carry the
bodies of the deck people yesterday the
said they give or they said that people
can leave um they give three hours for
the people to leave from Gaza City
towards the South but when people tried
to cross Salah the point that the
Israelis said people can leave through
they opened the fire at the people there
so people went back today the same some
people we we know about some people who
tried to go and they were they were uh
they couldn't take any anything with
them except their uh ID and they had to
carry their ID in their uh in their hand
and this remotely the Israelis were uh
watching and waiting for those who are
allowed to cross and so on but still
this is very limited number of people
because there was fear that they could
be targeted or they could be shot by the
Israeli uh the Israeli troops who who
hold a checkpoint at Salah certain point
at salahadin Street to control
everything and every movement okay safat
thank you very much for that update
safat Al calut on the line there from d
albalia in central Gaza where there's
been intense Israeli bombardment over
the last hour several air strikes huge
explosions over Gaza City and Central
Gaza as safat was telling us there this
is uh happening as a ground incursion of
Israeli troops is also happening in that
same area and the Israelis seem to be uh
using air power to support their
operation as we've seen
telecommunications the internet has been
cut off according to the uh Palestinian
telecommunications agency the internet
across that whole area of Gaza has been
disconnected and and people haven't been
able to reach out to family members who
live in that area of Gaza